RHIDP-7612 Added _Enablig user provisioning with LDAP_ (#1268)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/authentication/proc-enabling-user-provisioning-with-ldap.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="enabling-user-provisioning-with-ldap"]
= Enabling user provisioning with LDAP

> Provision users and groups from Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) to the {product} software catalog, rather than using authentication provider in {product-short}.

Author: ```suggestion
When your authentication provider depends on Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) to resolve user and grop identitites, provision users and groups from LDAP to the {product} software catalog, rather than using the provisioning mechanism from your authentication provider.
```

.Prerequisites
* You link:{configuring-book-url}[added a custom {product-short} application configuration], and have sufficient permissions to modify it.

* You have configured xref:assembly-authenticating-with-rhbk[authentication with {rhbk-brand-name} ({rhbk})].

* You have collected the required LDAP credentials:

> LDAP URL::

Author: No

    ldapOrg:
      default:
        target: ldaps://ds.example.net
        bind:
          dn: cn=admin,ou=Users,dc=rhdh
          secret: ${LDAP_SECRET}
        users:
          - dn: OU=Users,OU=RHDH Local,DC=rhdh,DC=test
            options:
              filter: (uid=*)
        groups:
          - dn: OU=Groups,OU=RHDH Local,DC=rhdh,DC=test
        schedule:
          frequency: PT1H
          timeout: PT15M
----

`target`::
Enter your LDAP server URL, such as `ldaps://ds.example.net`.

`bind`::
Enter your service account informations:

`dn`:::
Enter your service account distinguished name (DN), such as `cn=admin,OU=Users,DC=rhdh,DC=test`

`secret`:::
Enter the name of the variable containing your LDAP secret: `${LDAP_SECRET}`.

`users`::
Enter information about how to find your users:

`dn`:::
Enter the DN containing the user information.

`options`:::

`filter`::::
Enter your filter, such as `(uid=*)` to provision to the {product-very-short} software catalog only users with a valid `uid`.

`groups`::
Enter information about how to find your groups:

`dn`:::
Enter the DN containing the group information.

`schedule`::
Enter your schedule information:

`frequency`:::

> Enter your schedule frequency, in the cron, ISO duration, or "human duration" format.

Reviewer: are we sure about "human duration"? see my feedback in https://github.com/redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh/pull/1442#pullrequestreview-3337759815

              pageSize: 500
              pagePause: true
----

`scope`::
To change the default value: `one`, enter how deep the search should go within the directory tree:
* `base` to search only the base DN.
* `one` to search one level below the base DN.
* `sub` to search all descendant entries.

`filter`::
To change the default value: `(objectclass=*)`, enter your LDAP filter.
With the default mapping:
* For users, enter `(uid=*)` to make sure only users with valid uid field is synced, since users without uid will cause error and ingestion fails.
* For groups, enter `(cn=*)`
+
[TIP]
====
When you change the mapping, also update the filter.
====

`attributes`::
To change the default value: all attributes `['*', '+']`, enter the array of attribute names to import from LDAP.

`paged`::
Enter a value to enable paged results.

`pageSize`:::
Enter a value to set the results page size, such as `500`.

`pagePause`:::
Enter `true` to tell the client to wait for the asynchronous results of the next page,
when the page limit has been reached.

.Verification
* To verify user and group provisioning, check the console logs.
+
.Successful synchronization example:
[source,json]
----

> 

Reviewer: should this be empty?

Reviewer 2: ```
2025-10-15T20:45:49.072Z catalog info Read 4 LDAP users and 6 LDAP groups in 0.3 seconds. Committing... class="LdapOrgEntityProvider" taskId="LdapOrgEntityProvider:default:refresh" taskInstanceId="9bb48fd5-2f55-4096-9fd0-61cee6679952" trace_id="6a318e2eadba84e20df773948668aa4c" span_id="cbec568cb6e64985" trace_flags="01"
2025-10-15T20:45:49.075Z catalog info Committed 4 LDAP users and 6 LDAP groups in 0.0 seconds. class="LdapOrgEntityProvider" taskId="LdapOrgEntityProvider:default:refresh" taskInstanceId="9bb48fd5-2f55-4096-9fd0-61cee6679952" trace_id="6a318e2eadba84e20df773948668aa4c" span_id="cbec568cb6e64985" trace_flags="01"
```

Author: ```suggestion
2025-10-15T20:45:49.072Z catalog info Read 4 LDAP users and 6 LDAP groups in 0.3 seconds. Committing... class="LdapOrgEntityProvider" taskId="LdapOrgEntityProvider:default:refresh" taskInstanceId="9bb48fd5-2f55-4096-9fd0-61cee6679952" trace_id="6a318e2eadba84e20df773948668aa4c" span_id="cbec568cb6e64985" trace_flags="01"
2025-10-15T20:45:49.075Z catalog info Committed 4 LDAP users and 6 LDAP groups in 0.0 seconds. class="LdapOrgEntityProvider" taskId="LdapOrgEntityProvider:default:refresh" taskInstanceId="9bb48fd5-2f55-4096-9fd0-61cee6679952" trace_id="6a318e2eadba84e20df773948668aa4c" span_id="cbec568cb6e64985" trace_flags="01"
```

              - description
            paged:
              pageSize: 500
              pagePause: true
----

`scope`::
To change the default value: `one`, enter how deep the search should go within the directory tree:
* `base` to search only the base DN.
* `one` to search one level below the base DN.
* `sub` to search all descendant entries.

`filter`::
To change the default value: `(objectclass=*)`, enter your LDAP filter.
With the default mapping:
* For users, enter `(uid=*)` to make sure only users with valid uid field is synced, since users without uid will cause error and ingestion fails.
* For groups, enter `(cn=*)`
+
[TIP]
====
When you change the mapping, also update the filter.
====

`attributes`::
To change the default value: all attributes `['*', '+']`, enter the array of attribute names to import from LDAP.

`paged`::
Enter a value to enable paged results.

`pageSize`:::
Enter a value to set the results page size, such as `500`.

`pagePause`:::
Enter `true` to tell the client to wait for the asynchronous results of the next page,
when the page limit has been reached.

.Verification
* To verify user and group provisioning, check the console logs.
+

> .Successful synchronization example:

Author: ```suggestion
Successful synchronization example:
+
```

.. Optional: Remove other catalog providers, by removing the other catalog providers section.

.. Enter the mandatory fields:
+
[source,yaml]
----
catalog:
  providers:
    ldapOrg:
      default:
        target: ldaps://ds.example.net
        bind:
          dn: cn=admin,ou=Users,dc=rhdh
          secret: ${LDAP_SECRET}
        users:
          - dn: OU=Users,OU=RHDH Local,DC=rhdh,DC=test
            options:
              filter: (uid=*)
        groups:
          - dn: OU=Groups,OU=RHDH Local,DC=rhdh,DC=test
        schedule:
          frequency: PT1H
          timeout: PT15M
----

`target`::
Enter your LDAP server URL, such as `ldaps://ds.example.net`.

`bind`::
Enter your service account informations:

`dn`:::
Enter your service account distinguished name (DN), such as `cn=admin,OU=Users,DC=rhdh,DC=test`

`secret`:::
Enter the name of the variable containing your LDAP secret: `${LDAP_SECRET}`.

`users`::
Enter information about how to find your users:

`dn`:::
Enter the DN containing the user information.

`options`:::

`filter`::::

> Enter your filter, such as `(uid=*)` to provision to the {product-very-short} software catalog only users with a valid `uid`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enter your filter, such as `(uid=*)` to provision to the {product-very-short} software catalog only users with an existing `uid`.
```

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="enabling-user-provisioning-with-ldap"]
= Enabling user provisioning with LDAP

> When your authentication provider depends on Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) to resolve user and group identities, you can opt to provision users and groups from LDAP directly to the {product} software catalog, rather than using the provisioning mechanism from RHBK

Author: ```suggestion
When your authentication provider depends on Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) to resolve user and group identities, you can opt to provision users and groups from LDAP directly to the {product} software catalog, rather than using the provisioning mechanism from your authentication provider.
```
